\paragraph{Out-of-distribution feature test set.}
We constructed a separate out-of-distribution (OOD) test split to evaluate whether
the feature-based detector remains reliable under shifts that are not represented
by the standard train/validation/test splits. The split contains 168 manually
downloaded audio samples and combines two complementary sources of shift:
human-side metadata rarity and generator-side source shift.

The human portion contains 50 held-out songs labeled as human music. These tracks
were selected because their metadata values are rare or absent relative to the
790 human tracks in the non-OOD splits (training, validation, and test), and are
marked with \texttt{ood_reason = human_metadata_rarity}. This subset covers 13
languages, with English as the largest group (30/50) and several lower-frequency
languages represented by one or two examples; Traditional Chinese
(\texttt{zh-Hant}) appears only in the OOD human subset. The genre distribution
also deliberately includes rare or OOD-specific metadata strings, such as
Rap-Rock, Funk Rock, P-Pop, DIY Punk, Electro-Hop, New Jack Swing, Emo Rap,
Trap-Rock, Mandopop, C-Pop, Witch House, Desi Hip-Hop, Choral Music, and Aussie
Grime. The rarity statistics were computed by exact string matching against the
metadata fields in the current split files.

The AI-generated portion contains 118 manually downloaded tracks from generators
that were not used for training or validation of the feature models: 51 Lyria3
tracks, 51 Riffusion tracks, and 16 SilverKnightAI tracks. This part of the OOD
split therefore tests whether detectors trained on the available AI-generation
distribution generalize to new or held-out model families, rather than only to
new samples from already-seen sources.

Overall, the OOD split is intended as a stress test rather than a random sample
from the deployment distribution. The human tracks probe robustness to long-tail
metadata and musical-style coverage, while the AI tracks probe robustness to
previously unseen generators. This design makes the OOD evaluation stricter than
the standard held-out test split and helps separate in-distribution accuracy from
cross-source generalization.
